README.md, before:

# Welcome to HashLips 👄

![](https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine/blob/main/logo.png)

All the code in these repos was created and explained by HashLips on the main YouTube channel.

To find out more please visit:

[📺 YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1LV4_VQGBJHTJjEWUmy8nA)

[👄 Discord](https://discord.com/invite/qh6MWhMJDN)

[💬 Telegram](https://t.me/hashlipsnft)

[🐦 Twitter](https://twitter.com/hashlipsnft)

[ℹ️ Website](https://hashlips.online/HashLips)

# HashLips Art Engine 🔥

![](https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine/blob/main/banner.png)

Create generative art by using the canvas api and node js. Before you use the generation engine, make sure you have node.js installed.

## Installation 🛠️

If you are cloning the project then run this first, otherwise you can download the source code on the release page and skip this step.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine.git
```

Go to the root of your folder and run this command if you have yarn installed.

```sh
yarn install
```

Alternatively you can run this command if you have node installed.

```sh
npm install
```

## Usage ℹ️

Create your different layers as folders in the 'layers' directory, and add all the layer assets in these directories. You can name the assets anything as long as it has a rarity weight attached in the file name like so: `example element#70.png`. You can optionally change the delimiter `#` to anything you would like to use in the variable `rarityDelimiter` in the `src/config.js` file.

Once you have all your layers, go into `src/config.js` and update the `layerConfigurations` objects `layersOrder` array to be your layer folders name in order of the back layer to the front layer.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear, so your `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 100,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

The `name` of each layer object represents the name of the folder (in `/layers/`) that the images reside in.

Optionally you can now add multiple different `layerConfigurations` to your collection. Each configuration can be unique and have different layer orders, use the same layers or introduce new ones. This gives the artist flexibility when it comes to fine tuning their collections to their needs.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear and you want to create a new race or just simple re-order the layers or even introduce new layers, then you're `layerConfigurations` and `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    // Creates up to 50 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 50,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
  {
    // Creates an additional 100 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 150,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
      { name: "AlienHeadwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

Update your `format` size, ie the outputted image size, and the `growEditionSizeTo` on each `layerConfigurations` object, which is the amount of variation outputted.

You can mix up the `layerConfigurations` order on how the images are saved by setting the variable `shuffleLayerConfigurations` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default and will save all images in numerical order.

If you want to have logs to debug and see what is happening when you generate images you can set the variable `debugLogs` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default, so you will only see general logs.

If you want to play around with different blending modes, you can add a `blend: MODE.colorBurn` field to the layersOrder object. If you need a layers to have a different opacity then you can add the `opacity: 0.7` field to the layersOrder object as well. Both the `blend: MODE.colorBurn` and `opacity: 0.7` can be addes on the same layer if you want to.

Here is an example on how you can play around with both filter fields:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 5,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Eyeball" },
      { name: "Eye color", blend: MODE.colorBurn },
      { name: "Iris" },
      { name: "Shine" },
      { name: "Bottom lid", blend: MODE.overlay, opacity: 0.7 },
      { name: "Top lid", opacity: 0.7 },
    ],
  },
];
```

Here is a list of the different blending modes that you can optionally use.

```js
const MODE = {
  sourceOver: "source-over",
  sourceIn: "source-in",
  sourceOut: "source-out",
  sourceAtop: "source-out",
  destinationOver: "destination-over",
  destinationIn: "destination-in",
  destinationOut: "destination-out",
  destinationAtop: "destination-atop",
  lighter: "lighter",
  copy: "copy",
  xor: "xor",
  multiply: "multiply",
  screen: "screen",
  overlay: "overlay",
  darken: "darken",
  lighten: "lighten",
  colorDodge: "color-dodge",
  colorBurn: "color-burn",
  hardLight: "hard-light",
  softLight: "soft-light",
  difference: "difference",
  exclusion: "exclusion",
  hue: "hue",
  saturation: "saturation",
  color: "color",
  luminosity: "luminosity",
};
```

When you are ready, run the following command and your outputted art will be in the `build/images` directory and the json in the `build/json` directory:

```sh
npm run build
```

or

```sh
node index.js
```

The program will output all the images in the `build/images` directory along with the metadata files in the `build/json` directory. Each collection will have a `_metadata.json` file that consists of all the metadata in the collection inside the `build/json` directory. The `build/json` folder also will contain all the single json files that represent each image file. The single json file of a image will look something like this:

```json
{
  "dna": "d956cdf4e460508b5ff90c21974124f68d6edc34",
  "name": "#1",
  "description": "This is the description of your NFT project",
  "image": "https://hashlips/nft/1.png",
  "edition": 1,
  "date": 1731990799975,
  "attributes": [
    { "trait_type": "Background", "value": "Black" },
    { "trait_type": "Eyeball", "value": "Red" },
    { "trait_type": "Eye color", "value": "Yellow" },
    { "trait_type": "Iris", "value": "Small" },
    { "trait_type": "Shine", "value": "Shapes" },
    { "trait_type": "Bottom lid", "value": "Low" },
    { "trait_type": "Top lid", "value": "Middle" }
  ],
  "compiler": "HashLips Art Engine"
}
```

You can also add extra metadata to each metadata file by adding your extra items, (key: value) pairs to the `extraMetadata` object variable in the `config.js` file.

```js
const extraMetadata = {
  creator: "Daniel Eugene Botha",
};
```

If you don't need extra metadata, simply leave the object empty. It is empty by default.

```js
const extraMetadata = {};
```

That's it, you're done.

## Utils

### Updating baseUri for IPFS

You might possibly want to update the baseUri after you have ran your collection. To update the baseUri simply run:

```sh
node utils/updateBaseUri.js
```

### Generate a preview image

Create a preview image collage of your collection, run:

```sh
node utils/createPreviewCollage.js
```

### Re-generate the \_metadata.json file

This util will only work if you have all the individual json files and want to re-generate the \_metadata.json file if you lost it, run:

```sh
node utils/regenerateMetadata.js
```

### Printing rarity data (Experimental feature)

To see the percentages of each attribute across your collection, run:

```sh
node utils/rarityData.js
```

The output will look something like this:

```sh
Trait type: Bottom lid
{ trait: 'High', chance: '20', occurrence: '15% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Low', chance: '40', occurrence: '40% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Middle', chance: '40', occurrence: '45% out of 100%' }

Trait type: Iris
{ trait: 'Large', chance: '20', occurrence: '15% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Medium', chance: '20', occurrence: '15% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Small', chance: '60', occurrence: '70% out of 100%' }
```

Hope you create some awesome artworks with this code 👄

# Sequential Generation Instructions!

Currently, sequential generation is fairly rigid and needs to be 'safer', but here are the instructons:

## Folder setup

If you have a folder of items you want run sequentially instead of through weighted rarity, append the folder name with $ (not sure if this is useable across OS's but can be swapped to something new easily)

An example would be Base$

## Configuration change

Once you have changed the folder name, head to the config.js and set sequential to true
const sequential = true;

## Pitfalls

As previously mentioned, there are some pitfalls. Currently, THE AMOUNT OF ITEMS IN SEQUENTIAL FOLDERS MUST EQUAL {growEditionSizeTo}. So if its a 10k project it must have 10k unique items in ALL folders marked with '$'.

## Future Updates

Add a flag to determine if a user wants to run through the sequence again mid-generation. so if a 10k project only has 5k unique smiles but wants them all added twice to the entire collection, wrap the index for sequencing back to 0.

Commit message:

Adding sequenceLooping
Check readme for details on looping!

README.md, after:

# Welcome to HashLips 👄

![](https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine/blob/main/logo.png)

All the code in these repos was created and explained by HashLips on the main YouTube channel.

To find out more please visit:

[📺 YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1LV4_VQGBJHTJjEWUmy8nA)

[👄 Discord](https://discord.com/invite/qh6MWhMJDN)

[💬 Telegram](https://t.me/hashlipsnft)

[🐦 Twitter](https://twitter.com/hashlipsnft)

[ℹ️ Website](https://hashlips.online/HashLips)

# HashLips Art Engine 🔥

![](https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine/blob/main/banner.png)

Create generative art by using the canvas api and node js. Before you use the generation engine, make sure you have node.js installed.

## Installation 🛠️

If you are cloning the project then run this first, otherwise you can download the source code on the release page and skip this step.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine.git
```

Go to the root of your folder and run this command if you have yarn installed.

```sh
yarn install
```

Alternatively you can run this command if you have node installed.

```sh
npm install
```

## Usage ℹ️

Create your different layers as folders in the 'layers' directory, and add all the layer assets in these directories. You can name the assets anything as long as it has a rarity weight attached in the file name like so: `example element#70.png`. You can optionally change the delimiter `#` to anything you would like to use in the variable `rarityDelimiter` in the `src/config.js` file.

Once you have all your layers, go into `src/config.js` and update the `layerConfigurations` objects `layersOrder` array to be your layer folders name in order of the back layer to the front layer.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear, so your `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 100,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

The `name` of each layer object represents the name of the folder (in `/layers/`) that the images reside in.

Optionally you can now add multiple different `layerConfigurations` to your collection. Each configuration can be unique and have different layer orders, use the same layers or introduce new ones. This gives the artist flexibility when it comes to fine tuning their collections to their needs.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear and you want to create a new race or just simple re-order the layers or even introduce new layers, then you're `layerConfigurations` and `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    // Creates up to 50 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 50,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
  {
    // Creates an additional 100 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 150,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
      { name: "AlienHeadwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

Update your `format` size, ie the outputted image size, and the `growEditionSizeTo` on each `layerConfigurations` object, which is the amount of variation outputted.

You can mix up the `layerConfigurations` order on how the images are saved by setting the variable `shuffleLayerConfigurations` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default and will save all images in numerical order.

If you want to have logs to debug and see what is happening when you generate images you can set the variable `debugLogs` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default, so you will only see general logs.

If you want to play around with different blending modes, you can add a `blend: MODE.colorBurn` field to the layersOrder object. If you need a layers to have a different opacity then you can add the `opacity: 0.7` field to the layersOrder object as well. Both the `blend: MODE.colorBurn` and `opacity: 0.7` can be addes on the same layer if you want to.

Here is an example on how you can play around with both filter fields:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 5,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Eyeball" },
      { name: "Eye color", blend: MODE.colorBurn },
      { name: "Iris" },
      { name: "Shine" },
      { name: "Bottom lid", blend: MODE.overlay, opacity: 0.7 },
      { name: "Top lid", opacity: 0.7 },
    ],
  },
];
```

Here is a list of the different blending modes that you can optionally use.

```js
const MODE = {
  sourceOver: "source-over",
  sourceIn: "source-in",
  sourceOut: "source-out",
  sourceAtop: "source-out",
  destinationOver: "destination-over",
  destinationIn: "destination-in",
  destinationOut: "destination-out",
  destinationAtop: "destination-atop",
  lighter: "lighter",
  copy: "copy",
  xor: "xor",
  multiply: "multiply",
  screen: "screen",
  overlay: "overlay",
  darken: "darken",
  lighten: "lighten",
  colorDodge: "color-dodge",
  colorBurn: "color-burn",
  hardLight: "hard-light",
  softLight: "soft-light",
  difference: "difference",
  exclusion: "exclusion",
  hue: "hue",
  saturation: "saturation",
  color: "color",
  luminosity: "luminosity",
};
```

When you are ready, run the following command and your outputted art will be in the `build/images` directory and the json in the `build/json` directory:

```sh
npm run build
```

or

```sh
node index.js
```

The program will output all the images in the `build/images` directory along with the metadata files in the `build/json` directory. Each collection will have a `_metadata.json` file that consists of all the metadata in the collection inside the `build/json` directory. The `build/json` folder also will contain all the single json files that represent each image file. The single json file of a image will look something like this:

```json
{
  "dna": "d956cdf4e460508b5ff90c21974124f68d6edc34",
  "name": "#1",
  "description": "This is the description of your NFT project",
  "image": "https://hashlips/nft/1.png",
  "edition": 1,
  "date": 1731990799975,
  "attributes": [
    { "trait_type": "Background", "value": "Black" },
    { "trait_type": "Eyeball", "value": "Red" },
    { "trait_type": "Eye color", "value": "Yellow" },
    { "trait_type": "Iris", "value": "Small" },
    { "trait_type": "Shine", "value": "Shapes" },
    { "trait_type": "Bottom lid", "value": "Low" },
    { "trait_type": "Top lid", "value": "Middle" }
  ],
  "compiler": "HashLips Art Engine"
}
```

You can also add extra metadata to each metadata file by adding your extra items, (key: value) pairs to the `extraMetadata` object variable in the `config.js` file.

```js
const extraMetadata = {
  creator: "Daniel Eugene Botha",
};
```

If you don't need extra metadata, simply leave the object empty. It is empty by default.

```js
const extraMetadata = {};
```

That's it, you're done.

## Utils

### Updating baseUri for IPFS

You might possibly want to update the baseUri after you have ran your collection. To update the baseUri simply run:

```sh
node utils/updateBaseUri.js
```

### Generate a preview image

Create a preview image collage of your collection, run:

```sh
node utils/createPreviewCollage.js
```

### Re-generate the \_metadata.json file

This util will only work if you have all the individual json files and want to re-generate the \_metadata.json file if you lost it, run:

```sh
node utils/regenerateMetadata.js
```

### Printing rarity data (Experimental feature)

To see the percentages of each attribute across your collection, run:

```sh
node utils/rarityData.js
```

The output will look something like this:

```sh
Trait type: Bottom lid
{ trait: 'High', chance: '20', occurrence: '15% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Low', chance: '40', occurrence: '40% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Middle', chance: '40', occurrence: '45% out of 100%' }

Trait type: Iris
{ trait: 'Large', chance: '20', occurrence: '15% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Medium', chance: '20', occurrence: '15% out of 100%' }
{ trait: 'Small', chance: '60', occurrence: '70% out of 100%' }
```

Hope you create some awesome artworks with this code 👄

# Sequential Generation Instructions!

Currently, sequential generation is fairly rigid and needs to be 'safer', but here are the instructons:

## Folder setup

If you have a folder of items you want run sequentially instead of through weighted rarity, append the folder name with $ (not sure if this is useable across OS's but can be swapped to something new easily)

An example would be Base$

## Configuration change

Once you have changed the folder name, head to the config.js and set sequential to true
const sequential = true;

If you don't have the same amount of items in your sequence folder as there are total images, you can set sequentialLooping to true to have the folder set back to 0 and start again until all files are created.

Example: you want 10k total faces but only have 100 unique smiles that you want run sequentially, with looping on after you hit smiles #100, the sequence will reset back 0. At the end of the generation you will have 10k smiles in a sequence of 100 each.

const sequentialLooping = true;

If you set sequentialLooping to false, the folders will be removed form further generation, removing that attribute entirely from the images.

Example, you want 10k total facs but only have 100 unique smiles, after the 100th image is generated, the remaining 9899 will not have any smiles.

If the amount of items in your sequential folder(s) is equivalent to the total amount of images generated, looping wont matter :^)

## Future Updates

Add a flag to determine if a user wants to run through the sequence again mid-generation. so if a 10k project only has 5k unique smiles but wants them all added twice to the entire collection, wrap the index for sequencing back to 0.
